# BIOMECHANICAL-ANALYSIS-OF-FUNCTIONAL-MOVEMENT-OF-ATHLETES-USING-KINOVEA
Abstract - Kinovea and the Functional Movement Assessment (FMS) are two widely used tools in the sports field to assess and enhance the physical performance and overall health of athletes and individuals. Kinovea is a video analysis software, and when used in conjunction with the FMS, it provides a precise and comprehensive assessment of functional movement quality and its application in injury prevention and sports performance. Currently, there are no validated tools capable of replacing the visual assessment of the FMS for a detailed analysis of movement biomechanics, which is why this study was conducted. Twenty-two participants from volleyball, basketball, and soccer teams were selected for this study. They were subjected to four FMS exercises: deep squat, active straight leg raise, hurdle step, and in-line lunge. These movements were recorded and subsequently analyzed in Kinovea to extract angular data from the knee, hip, and ankle joints. The results obtained demonstrate that Kinovea is a tool that can complement the visual assessment conducted by coaches during the FMS, providing a level of detail that enriches the evaluation. At the end of the research, angular ranges were assigned to the scores established by the FMS, simplifying, and making the assessment more accurate. Additionally, a weak correlation was observed between sociodemographic variables and the FMS results obtained from the participants, suggesting that other factors also influence movement quality in athletes. This underscores the importance of considering a variety of factors when evaluating and improving the physical performance of athletes. 
